---
title:  "Hello World!"
date:   2017-02-14 02:00:00 +0100
categories: personal
excerpt: I'm introducing my personal website and technical blog. Read for whats & whys and to find out what my scrum master thinks about programmers :)
---

{% highlight java %}
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello world!");
  }
{% endhighlight %}

I guess it's kind of a funny way for a (Java) programmer to welcome readers on his personal website. I'm glad I've managed to bring it to life on the very special night that precedes Valentine's Day. Why? Let's say that I've got a tradition of starting important projects on special days :)

To make a long story short: this is my personal website, which is meant to act as a technical blog. I'm glad that I've managed to stop myself from coding on behalf of my new side-project and to brace myself to make this website go life. As you can read in the [About page]({{ site.url }}/about), I'd like to write here about the programming challanges I've come upon during my regular work, as well as own projects. My goal is to create here some kind of a repository of solutions, that I've worked out for particular issues.

Why? One of the main reasons for such a blog is to document my work. I'm a startuper at heart (who, at the other side, appreciate corporate benefits...), therefore I try to commercialise every side-project that I'm working on. And that's why I can't show off my code on the GitHub. So there's an answer - posting about particular problems. Soon, I'll start by creating a category for posts regarding my current project.

But there's more! Today, at work, I've heard a very funny - and true, when you ask me! - sentence about the programmers. Quoting our scrum master, Jakub:

> Every programmer has an opinion on every possible topic.

With a reference to above citation - be prepared for some non-technical posts as well ;)

OK, I think that's enough for a first post. Stay tuned for the upcoming posts - I've already have several topics prepared for you!
